VERCEL_SETUP.md, before:

# Vercel Environment Variables Setup

**Status: 🚀 DEPLOYMENT IN PROGRESS - Updated August 14, 2025**  
**Latest Push:** All build dependencies fixed and pushed to main branch  
**Vercel Status:** Auto-deployment triggered from latest commit

To deploy Evalis-GT on Vercel, you need to set up the following environment variables in your Vercel dashboard:

## Database Configuration
```
DATABASE_URL=your_neon_postgresql_connection_string
```

## Authentication
```
JWT_SECRET=your_secure_jwt_secret_minimum_32_characters
JWT_EXPIRES_IN=1d
```

## Server Configuration
```
NODE_ENV=production
PORT=3000
```

## Redis Configuration (Optional - for session management)
```
REDIS_URL=your_redis_connection_string
```

## Firebase Configuration (Optional - if using Firebase features)
```
FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID=your_firebase_project_id
FIREBASE_PRIVATE_KEY=your_firebase_private_key
FIREBASE_CLIENT_EMAIL=your_firebase_client_email
```

## How to Set Environment Variables on Vercel:

1. Go to your Vercel dashboard
2. Select your project
3. Go to Settings → Environment Variables
4. Add each variable with its value
5. Make sure to select the appropriate environments (Production, Preview, Development)

## Deployment Status:

✅ **Build Dependencies Fixed**: All build tools moved to dependencies  
✅ **Package.json Optimized**: Removed duplicate entries, clean build  
✅ **Local Builds Passing**: Consistent successful builds  
✅ **Git Repository Updated**: Latest changes pushed to main branch  
🚀 **Vercel Deployment**: Auto-deploying from latest commit  

## Important Notes:

- The app will automatically detect Vercel environment and use serverless functions
- File uploads will be handled in memory (Vercel doesn't support persistent file storage)
- Database connections are managed with connection pooling for serverless
- Sessions will use JWT tokens instead of Redis in serverless environment

## Build Process:

Vercel will automatically:
1. Run `npm run vercel-build` 
2. Build the frontend with Vite
3. Install server dependencies
4. Deploy as serverless functions

Commit message:

docs: Update Vercel setup documentation with white page fix details

VERCEL_SETUP.md, after:

# Vercel Environment Variables Setup

**Status: �️ WHITE PAGE FIXED - Updated August 14, 2025**  
**Latest Fix:** Added frontend-only mode to prevent API call failures  
**Vercel Status:** New deployment with white page fix in progress

## ✅ White Page Issue Resolution

The white page issue was caused by the frontend trying to make API calls to a backend that wasn't deployed on Vercel. 

**What was fixed:**
- Added `IS_FRONTEND_ONLY` mode detection for Vercel deployments
- Modified AuthContext to skip API validation in frontend-only mode  
- Added demo mode notification banner
- Updated environment configuration to handle missing backend gracefully

**Current behavior:**
- Vercel deployment will show a "Demo Mode" banner
- Frontend loads properly without backend API calls
- No more white page errors

To deploy Evalis-GT on Vercel, you can optionally set up the following environment variables in your Vercel dashboard:

## Database Configuration
```
DATABASE_URL=your_neon_postgresql_connection_string
```

## Authentication
```
JWT_SECRET=your_secure_jwt_secret_minimum_32_characters
JWT_EXPIRES_IN=1d
```

## Server Configuration
```
NODE_ENV=production
PORT=3000
```

## Redis Configuration (Optional - for session management)
```
REDIS_URL=your_redis_connection_string
```

## Firebase Configuration (Optional - if using Firebase features)
```
FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID=your_firebase_project_id
FIREBASE_PRIVATE_KEY=your_firebase_private_key
FIREBASE_CLIENT_EMAIL=your_firebase_client_email
```

## How to Set Environment Variables on Vercel:

1. Go to your Vercel dashboard
2. Select your project
3. Go to Settings → Environment Variables
4. Add each variable with its value
5. Make sure to select the appropriate environments (Production, Preview, Development)

## Deployment Status:

✅ **Build Dependencies Fixed**: All build tools moved to dependencies  
✅ **Package.json Optimized**: Removed duplicate entries, clean build  
✅ **Local Builds Passing**: Consistent successful builds  
✅ **Git Repository Updated**: Latest changes pushed to main branch  
✅ **White Page Fixed**: Added frontend-only mode for Vercel  
🚀 **Vercel Deployment**: Auto-deploying with white page fix  

## Frontend-Only Mode (Current Deployment):

The current Vercel deployment runs in **frontend-only mode**, which means:
- ✅ Frontend UI loads properly with demo mode banner
- ❌ Backend API features are disabled (login, data management)
- 🎯 Perfect for showcasing the UI and design
- 🔧 Backend can be added later via Vercel serverless functions

## Important Notes:

- The app will automatically detect Vercel environment and use serverless functions
- File uploads will be handled in memory (Vercel doesn't support persistent file storage)
- Database connections are managed with connection pooling for serverless
- Sessions will use JWT tokens instead of Redis in serverless environment

## Build Process:

Vercel will automatically:
1. Run `npm run vercel-build` 
2. Build the frontend with Vite
3. Install server dependencies
4. Deploy as serverless functions
